# BellaBeat_Analysis
This repository contains my analytics process for Google's Data Analysis capstone project. This project details the steps taken, methods used, tools, and programs utilized throughout the process. Visualizations were created using Python and Google Sheets. 

## Objective
To identify trends in BellaBeat Fitbit tracker and how these trends can be used for a marketing team.

## Overview and Purpose
Working with the data Bellabeat provided, my job is to examine the raw data and ask questions about what is being collected. From those questions, I can produce answers that can translate to marketable processes for current and future customers. A new or improved marketing approach will help BellaBeat increase profits and drive revenue. The analysis will take into consideration all aspects of data and annotate processes along the way, explain why certain methods are used, and where to go forward. 

This analysis from this dataset will produce visuals and tables easily understandable for any non-technical audience. Visuals will include bar charts and scatter plots representing different aspects of the data for relationship identification. Tables will be presented as a secondary means of relationship analysis. Both of these methods combined will inform the audience of the story behind the data, what it means, and what actionable steps can be taken to help improve the marketability of BellaBeat.

## Data Source
Data sets were generated by BellaBeat and posted on Kaggle.com [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit). All data used was pulled from this site and no other data was taken from any other source.

## Data Cleaning
The data cleaning process consisted of joining datasets pulled from the data source as they were split into two separate periods. I joined them to encompass all data recorded for each user. Python and SQL were the most effective languages for cleaning data and transforming the data into meaningful and useful datasets. Cleaning methods in Python were used to check for duplicates, null values, outliers, and processing data. Certain columns proved irrelavent or redundant to answering some questions and those entries were cleaned.

## Data Models
Renditions from analysis are below and show trends in variables. These models show the relationship between users' calories burned and there level of activity. Activity levels varied from sedentary, low, active, and very active.

